(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai - Go Unlimited to remove this message) Away
from
the
front
lines,
an
army
of
artists
begin
the
process
of
mending
this
nation's
grief.
Gently
repairing
the
hurt
brought
on
by
war.
At
Lviv's
National
Opera,
everyone
has
a
part
to
play.
Tonight's
Giselle
Ballet
will
be
the
first
full
performance
since
the
theatre
closed
its
doors
almost
two
months
ago.
As
musicians
dust
off
their
instruments
and
as
the
audience
starts
to
trickle
in,
for
us
coming
to
the
theatre
is
returning
to
a
small
part
of
our
life
which
was
there
before
the
war.
We
are
internally
displaced
from
Kiev,
says
Julia
Dimitrieva.
We
had
to
come
Lviv
while
there
are
hostilities.
The
artistic
director
tells
me
why
they
decided
to
open
now.
We
understand
that
light
must
defeat
darkness,
that
life
must
defeat
death
and
the
mission
of
the
theatre
is
to
assert
this.
But
the
reminders
of
war
are
never
too
far
away.
Dear
guests,
our
event
will
be
suspended
in
case
of
an
air
raid
alert.
Only
seats
were
allowed
to
be
sold
tonight,
the
capacity
of
the
Opera's
bomb
shelter.
Still,
it's
sold
out.
It's
only
minutes
now
until
that
curtain
opens
and
you
can
feel
the
tension
because
this
performance
is
extra
special.
For
a
few
hours,
nothing
else
matters.
As
the
audience
and
I
are
transported
to
a
world
of
love
and
beauty.
Playing
Giselle
tonight
is
-year
-old
Irina.
It
feels
great,
she
tells
me,
back
in
her
dressing
room
because
dancing
helps
to
distract
from
what's
happening.
Like
many
here,
her
life
is
a
journey.
Her
life
has
been
shaken
by
war
and
the
horrors
of
Bucza,
where
mass
graves
were
recently
found.
My
mum
and
my
grandmother
and
her
sister
survived
occupation
in
Bucza,
she
tells
me.
Now
she's
in
safety
Poland,
restoring
her
nerves.
Doreena
finds
solace
on
this
stage,
throwing
herself
behind
her
character.
All
the
negative
emotions
which
accumulate
for
a
long
time
flow
out,
she
tells
me.
A
cathartic
performance
for
both
those
on
and
off
stage.
Offering
comfort
to
those
who
need
it
most.
In
the
hope
they
can
lift,
if
only
just
briefly,
this
nation's
aching
soul.
Isa
Soares,
CNN,
Lviv,
Ukraine.